readme.md, before:

# covid19model-fr-regions-results

This dataset is a derivative work from the Imperial College Study 
[Estimating the number of infections and the impact of nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPI) on COVID-19 in 11 European countries](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/mrc-global-infectious-disease-analysis/covid-19/report-13-europe-npi-impact/).
This repository presents results for the forecasting of the COVID-19 epidemic at French regional level.

The goal of this dataset is to open the access to the result of our simulations, we encourage:

- Suggesting runs, to validate specific behaviours.
- Making visualisation of the data that illustrate reliability.
- Analysis of the performance and forecasting.

This dataset is part of the [data against covid-19](https://opencovid19.fr/)
citizens' initiative for open data and open source code around the COVID-19
pandemic.

Looking to contribute? Check the contributing section below on ways you can help
and then go to our [projects page](https://github.com/payoto/covid19model/projects)!

Codes to run the simulations in our [sister repository](https://github.com/payoto/covid19model).

This repository is also available on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/mrpayoto/covid19-icl-method-france-regions-results)

## Licenses

- Data (all `.csv` and `.png` files) in this repository are licensed under the [CC-BY-4.0 license](LICENSE-data).
- Code in this repository (all files except `.csv` and `.png`) in this repository are licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE-code).

## Structure of data

- Data is stored in the `runs/` folder
- Each sub-directory is a "full" run (ran with flag `--full`: 4 chains with 4000 iterations and 2000 repetitions).
- `.csv` files describing the inputs are:
  - `<run name>-inputs-active_regions_ifr.csv` : List of regions considered and the country they are part of, and the IFR used. 
  - `<run name>-base-intervention.csv` : List of NPIs per region considered. 
  - `<run name>-inputs-distribution-parameters.csv` : Configuration of distributions governing transition from infection to hospital and death. 
- Data files describing the finale fitted parameters:
  - `<run name>-covars-alpha-reduction.csv` : Reduction of the `Rt` as a result of each considered NPI (see `.png` file for visualisation). 
  - `<run name>-final-rt.csv` : Final values of `Rt` for each simulation in each region (see `.png` file for visualisation). 
  - `<run name>-final-mu.csv` : Final deviation of `Rt` for each simulation in each region (see `.png` file for visualisation).
- `.csv` files describing the modelled time series and input data:
  - `<run name>-base-plot.csv` : Time series of the fitted data from start time-to simulation time, no forecast.
  - `<run name>-forecast-data.csv` : 7 days time series forecast for each region.

### Detailed descriptions

In progress

#### `-base-plot.csv` - model fit time series

- "" : index
- `"time"` : Date in format `yyyy-mm-dd`.
- `"country"` : Country.
- `"region"` : Geographical region in country.

Other columns are detailed in tabular form below. Notes:

- `<XXX>_c` : denotes a quantity cumulated since the start of the local epidemic;
- modelled data is presented with confidence intervals:
  - `<XXX>_min` : denotes the lower bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.025% band);
  - `<XXX>_max` : denotes the upper bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.975% band);

| Column name                       | source   | temporality   | Confidence Band | Description                   |
|-----------------------------------|----------|---------------|-----------------|-------------------------------|
| `"estimated_deaths_forecast"`     | forecast | daily         | 50%             | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths_forecast_min"` | forecast | daily         | 0.025%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths_forecast_max"` | forecast | daily         | 0.975%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"rt"`                            | Inferred | instantaneous | 50%             | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_min"`                        | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.025%          | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_max"`                        | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.975%          | R_t total reproduction number |


#### `-forecast-data.csv` - model forecast time series

- "" : index
- `"time"` : Date in format `yyyy-mm-dd`.
- `"country"` : The geographical **region** of the data, to find the country crossreference with `<case name>-inputs-active_regions.csv`.
- `"region"` : Geographical region in country.

Other columns are detailed in tabular form below. Notes:

- `<XXX>_c` : denotes a quantity cumulated since the start of the local epidemic;
- modelled data is presented with confidence intervals:
  - `<XXX>_min` : denotes the lower bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.025% band);
  - `<XXX>_max` : denotes the upper bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.975% band);
  - `<XXX>_min2` : denotes the lower bound of a 50% confidence interval (0.25% band);
  - `<XXX>_max2` : denotes the upper bound of a 50% confidence interval (0.75% band);

| Column name            | source   | temporality   | Confidence Band | Description                   |
|------------------------|----------|---------------|-----------------|-------------------------------|
| `"reported_cases"`     | Official | daily         | real sample     | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"reported_cases_c"`   | Official | cumulated     | real sample     | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_cases_c"`  | modeled  | cumulated     | 50%             | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_min_c"`    | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.025%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_max_c"`    | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.975%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_cases"`    | modeled  | daily         | 50%             | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_min"`      | modeled  | daily         | 0.025%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_max"`      | modeled  | daily         | 0.975%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_min2"`     | modeled  | daily         | 0.25%           | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_max2"`     | modeled  | daily         | 0.75%           | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"deaths"`             | Official | daily         | real sample     | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"deaths_c"`           | Official | cumulated     | real sample     | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths_c"` | modeled  | cumulated     | 50%             | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_min_c"`        | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.025%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_max_c"`        | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.975%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths"`   | modeled  | daily         | 50%             | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_min"`          | modeled  | daily         | 0.025%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_max"`          | modeled  | daily         | 0.975%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_min2"`         | modeled  | daily         | 0.25%           | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_max2"`         | modeled  | daily         | 0.75%           | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"rt"`                 | Inferred | instantaneous | 50%             | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_min"`             | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.025%          | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_max"`             | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.975%          | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_min2"`            | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.25%           | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_max2"`            | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.75%           | R_t total reproduction number |

## Using this data

## Example dataset and visualisation

Commit message:

Add git hooks which handle manifest maintenance
This git commit hook runs `generate-manifest.sh` and adds
the diff of the short manifest to the commit message.
before the author edits it.

readme.md, after:

# covid19model-fr-regions-results

This dataset is a derivative work from the Imperial College Study 
[Estimating the number of infections and the impact of nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPI) on COVID-19 in 11 European countries](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/mrc-global-infectious-disease-analysis/covid-19/report-13-europe-npi-impact/).
This repository presents results for the forecasting of the COVID-19 epidemic at French regional level.

The goal of this dataset is to open the access to the result of our simulations, we encourage:

- Suggesting runs, to validate specific behaviours.
- Making visualisation of the data that illustrate reliability.
- Analysis of the performance and forecasting.

This dataset is part of the [data against covid-19](https://opencovid19.fr/)
citizens' initiative for open data and open source code around the COVID-19
pandemic.

Looking to contribute? Check the contributing section below on ways you can help
and then go to our [projects page](https://github.com/payoto/covid19model/projects)!

Codes to run the simulations in our [sister repository](https://github.com/payoto/covid19model).

This repository is also available on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/mrpayoto/covid19-icl-method-france-regions-results)

## Licenses

- Data (all `.csv` and `.png` files) in this repository are licensed under the [CC-BY-4.0 license](LICENSE-data).
- Code in this repository (all files except `.csv` and `.png`) in this repository are licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE-code).

## Adding to the data

- Fork this repository
- Clone this repository
- Install the git hooks by running:

  
  .githooks/copy-hooks.sh

- Add the content of the `payoto:covid19model/results/` folder corresponding to successful `--fullrun` executions.
- Do a PR to add to this repository.


## Structure of data

- Data is stored in the `runs/` folder
- Each sub-directory is a "full" run (ran with flag `--full`: 4 chains with 4000 iterations and 2000 repetitions).
- `.csv` files describing the inputs are:
  - `<run name>-inputs-active_regions_ifr.csv` : List of regions considered and the country they are part of, and the IFR used. 
  - `<run name>-base-intervention.csv` : List of NPIs per region considered. 
  - `<run name>-inputs-distribution-parameters.csv` : Configuration of distributions governing transition from infection to hospital and death. 
- Data files describing the finale fitted parameters:
  - `<run name>-covars-alpha-reduction.csv` : Reduction of the `Rt` as a result of each considered NPI (see `.png` file for visualisation). 
  - `<run name>-final-rt.csv` : Final values of `Rt` for each simulation in each region (see `.png` file for visualisation). 
  - `<run name>-final-mu.csv` : Final deviation of `Rt` for each simulation in each region (see `.png` file for visualisation).
- `.csv` files describing the modelled time series and input data:
  - `<run name>-base-plot.csv` : Time series of the fitted data from start time-to simulation time, no forecast.
  - `<run name>-forecast-data.csv` : 7 days time series forecast for each region.

### Detailed descriptions

In progress

#### `-base-plot.csv` - model fit time series

- "" : index
- `"time"` : Date in format `yyyy-mm-dd`.
- `"country"` : Country.
- `"region"` : Geographical region in country.

Other columns are detailed in tabular form below. Notes:

- `<XXX>_c` : denotes a quantity cumulated since the start of the local epidemic;
- modelled data is presented with confidence intervals:
  - `<XXX>_min` : denotes the lower bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.025% band);
  - `<XXX>_max` : denotes the upper bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.975% band);

| Column name                       | source   | temporality   | Confidence Band | Description                   |
|-----------------------------------|----------|---------------|-----------------|-------------------------------|
| `"estimated_deaths_forecast"`     | forecast | daily         | 50%             | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths_forecast_min"` | forecast | daily         | 0.025%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths_forecast_max"` | forecast | daily         | 0.975%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"rt"`                            | Inferred | instantaneous | 50%             | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_min"`                        | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.025%          | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_max"`                        | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.975%          | R_t total reproduction number |


#### `-forecast-data.csv` - model forecast time series

- "" : index
- `"time"` : Date in format `yyyy-mm-dd`.
- `"country"` : The geographical **region** of the data, to find the country crossreference with `<case name>-inputs-active_regions.csv`.
- `"region"` : Geographical region in country.

Other columns are detailed in tabular form below. Notes:

- `<XXX>_c` : denotes a quantity cumulated since the start of the local epidemic;
- modelled data is presented with confidence intervals:
  - `<XXX>_min` : denotes the lower bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.025% band);
  - `<XXX>_max` : denotes the upper bound of a 95% confidence interval (0.975% band);
  - `<XXX>_min2` : denotes the lower bound of a 50% confidence interval (0.25% band);
  - `<XXX>_max2` : denotes the upper bound of a 50% confidence interval (0.75% band);

| Column name            | source   | temporality   | Confidence Band | Description                   |
|------------------------|----------|---------------|-----------------|-------------------------------|
| `"reported_cases"`     | Official | daily         | real sample     | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"reported_cases_c"`   | Official | cumulated     | real sample     | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_cases_c"`  | modeled  | cumulated     | 50%             | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_min_c"`    | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.025%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_max_c"`    | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.975%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_cases"`    | modeled  | daily         | 50%             | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_min"`      | modeled  | daily         | 0.025%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_max"`      | modeled  | daily         | 0.975%          | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_min2"`     | modeled  | daily         | 0.25%           | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"predicted_max2"`     | modeled  | daily         | 0.75%           | cases of COVID-19.            |
| `"deaths"`             | Official | daily         | real sample     | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"deaths_c"`           | Official | cumulated     | real sample     | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths_c"` | modeled  | cumulated     | 50%             | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_min_c"`        | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.025%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_max_c"`        | modeled  | cumulated     | 0.975%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"estimated_deaths"`   | modeled  | daily         | 50%             | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_min"`          | modeled  | daily         | 0.025%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_max"`          | modeled  | daily         | 0.975%          | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_min2"`         | modeled  | daily         | 0.25%           | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"death_max2"`         | modeled  | daily         | 0.75%           | deaths of COVID-19.           |
| `"rt"`                 | Inferred | instantaneous | 50%             | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_min"`             | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.025%          | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_max"`             | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.975%          | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_min2"`            | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.25%           | R_t total reproduction number |
| `"rt_max2"`            | Inferred | instantaneous | 0.75%           | R_t total reproduction number |

## Using this data

## Example dataset and visualisation
